I have created a Library Management System (LMS) for librarians(admids) and users to efficiently handle actions typically performed in a library. The code includes various classes including a Book, Patron, Transaction, and Library class to do the bulk of the work along with minor functions that can assist in making the process easier.

The main structure of the code starts with the Book, Patron, Transaction, and Library classes at the top. The book class can be used to handle operations such as creating book objects with attributes including: name, author, isbn, and quantity along with a method to display the attributes called display_details(). Next, is the patron class which works very similarly to the book class. The transaction class is handles all check-ins and check-outs of books from patrons. Depending on if the patron is checking-in or checking-out, the transaction class properly stores and updates the quantity of a specific book that the patron is checking out. FInally, the library class handles add/remove books and patrons along with displaying information about books and patrons. The rest of the code is built as an interface for the user or admin to use and access data. There are separate interfaces for users and admins because they have different roles. An admin would typically add/remove books and look at patron details. A user would just be checking in/out a book. When a user is checking out a book, the LMS asks for the ISBN of the book. Some users may have trouble knowing or finding the ISBN. There is a function that exports the details of every book to a csv file simalar to a catalog of the library. This allows users to view what books they would like to check out as well as other information such as the ISBN, author, and quantity. The final amount of code creates book instances and patron instances so that the code functions as a real-life library.

As you start the code, the program will ask if you are a user or admin. If you select admin, you will be acting as a librarian. From the admin interface you can do things like add/remove books or viewing patrons.

If you choose the user option, the code will immediately ask if you would like to view all of the current books. From there you can use the ISBN to check out a book or check in a book. You will be asked for the ISBN and your patron ID to check out a book. In order to check out a book, you must be a patron. You must create your on patron onject in order to check out/in ab book

Creating the classes were pretty easy in my opinion. It felt repetitive which I think is easy. The difficult part that I had most of my trouble was finding a way to intergrate all the classes together. I originally thought making all of the classes work together was the hardest part, but creating the user interface was more challenging. Another problem I faced was exporting information to a csv file. I do not have a lot of experience working with files outside of the usual command line interface. Getting all if the information from the library and exporting it onto a csv file was difficult to figure out, but it seems important when a user is trying to pick out a new book.
